---
layout: post
title:  "The Genesis Project"
date:   2018-02-16
excerpt: "A discord bot that exist to assist you with finding and tracking information for your journey in Warframe."
project: true
tag:
- genesis 
- discord.js
- about
- discord
- bot
comments: true
---

<center><b>Cephalon Genesis</b> is a discord bot to help you on your Warframe journey.</center>
     
## About

Well, Genesis has [a whole website](https://genesis.warframestat.us), and is pretty cool. Genesis has been my passion project for brining Warframe information up to whoever want to access it on Discord. Genesis has spawned off several other supporting/related libraries to make all of that easier. I did not originally start Genesis, and the project has been contributed to by some awesome other devs over time, but at this point I'm the primary maintainer.

Genesis is written in JavaScript running on Node.js, currently in commonjs modules. 2 aspects compose the project with a shared database interface. The bot side is interactable from discord and is a data retrieval system for the most part with management for the notifications system provided. The notifications system is primarily a parsing and distribution system that accesses the database and a set of [flat-cache](https://npmjs.com/package/flat-cache)s to reduce at-notification-time database lookups. Sadly this introduces a small delay (10 minutes - 1 hour) depending on what setting you change. 

### Comments
Feel free to leave comments with disqus.

---

## Questions?

Found a bug or aren't quite sure how something works? By all means check the [discord](https://discord.gg/DuFunUv), and if that fails, [file a GitHub Issue](https://github.com/wfcd/genesis/issues/new).    
We love to know what's up.

---

## License

Genesis is free and open source software, distributed under the Apache 2 License. So feel free to host your own copy of Genesis, but a reference to the repo would be fantastic!
(Just realize that I my not provide support for every situation arising from self-hosting, but I'll try.)
